The BRICO ontology and knowledge base has a non-traditional "semantic"
"foundation" ("scare quotes" around both words) which attempts to
avoid the pitfalls of many other approaches to general purpose
knowledge representation.  In particular BRICO is intentionally:

* anthropic: BRICO is trying to describe human behavior and language
  usage rather than describing the world;
* incomplete: BRICO captures what is "easy" to say rather than everything
  one might want to say;
* terminological: BRICO emphasizes terms/concepts and their relations rather
   than sentences or statements and their combination.
* equivocal: BRICO describes things in many different ways rather than
   attempting to reduce terms to other terms.

Practically, BRICO is intended to help computers understand people and
people connected by computers (across time, space, culture, language,
etc) to understand one another.

Scientifically, BRICO is based on the idea that most knowledge and
reasoning is radically case-based but that our conscious and
unconscious terms and categories shape the processes of retrieval and
matching which underly case-based knowledge and reasoning.  BRICO is
designed to be strictly limited in the reasoning it does while
supporting more sophisticated mechanisms.

These four core attributes of BRICO --- anthropic, incomplete,
terminological, and equivocal --- are "flaws" which we embrace out of
a desire to make something which directly addresses these practical
and scientific goals.

BRICO is anthropic because:

1. to connect people, we need to understand how people are thinking;

2. any knowledge we enter will be anthropic anyway, so we might as
   well embrace it;

3. we want BRICO to be (moderately) general purpose, and there's no
   way we can set out to make that for the whole world;

4. a focus on human behavior gives us an empirical grounding for
   our efforts, which can be an important constraint/firegap.

The practical consequences of the BRICO's anthropic character include
the adoption [ref] of synsets (from WordNet) for the articulation of
concepts, the use of explications [ref] over definitions, and the
explicit separation of norm terms [ref] from all terms.

BRICO is incomplete because:

1. we want to be computationally efficient (not to mention formally
   tractable), and completeness can be costly;

2. we recognize that some knowledge defies simple description and we
   don't want to sacrifice that simplicity in our foundations;

3. human knowledge is inherently incomplete and partial and that's
   okay for people, so it should be okay for BRICO.

The practical consequences of the BRICO's incomplete character include
the use of syllogistic inference [ref] over more general inference
techniques, the terminological focus [ref] over complex scoping and
variable schemes, and the inclusion of non-universal relationships
(e.g. sometimes, probably) which don't give much inferential leverage.

BRICO is terminological because:

1. language is terminological and human language is our most
   accessible way to observe and understand human thought;

2. terms provide a focus for extraction, critique, and refinement
   in the ontology creation process;

3. managing and reasoning with terms is often more tractable than dealing
   with other forms of representation;

4. we believe that human thought consists mostly of terms and stories
   with very little space for the isolated "sentences" which dominate
   modern logic, especially when they grow complex.

The terminological character of BRICO is reflected in the constraint
that concepts should be "wordable" --- they should be able to function
as atomic words in everyday speech in some natural language.  It also
rules out some "simple" concepts because there is no "not" --- there
is no way to create the universal complement of a concept.

BRICO is equivocal because:

1. we believe that multiple representations are a key to common sense
   reasoning and human adaptability;

2. one natural mode of cognitive evolution moves from equivocal terms
   (which collapse multiple meanings into a single term) towards less
   equivocal terms; we want to support that mode of evolution;

3. we want to reify partial consensus around meanings without
   demanding total clarity.

BRICO's equivocal character is reflected in various practices.  First,
it is not uncommon for concepts in BRICO to mash together distintions
that could be separated.  For example, there might be a single node in
BRICO for "Arnold Schwarzenegger" even though one can say different
things about "Actor Arnold Schwarzenegger" and "Governor Arnold
Schwarzenegger" and they could be different (but certainly connected)
concepts.

Similarly, BRICO has some relationships which allow vauge connections
between concepts.  The DEFTERMS of a concept are concepts which can
play a role in some definitions of the concept.  The RELTERMS are
concepts which are related in some particular but unspecified way.
The REFTERMS of a concept are concepts which are related in some vauge
and unspecified way.

There is also little hesitation to introduce new "merger nodes" to
unify concepts under a common head based on some imprecise common
property.





